Blog: Orchestrating 6 Subagents to Build a Collaborative API Playground (#3528)
block/goose: documentation/blog/2025-07-21-orchestrating-subagents/index.md

3 other subagents should work in parallel developing a readme, api collections and, a simple test suite. 

- Subagent 4: Create a beginner friendly README
- Subagent 5: Create a spample api collection and examples with 2-3 read to try example requests. Use safe, fun public apis like dog facts and joke api
- Subagent 6: Create a simple test suite 

Final result should be a working web app where multiple people can test APIs together, see each other's requests and responses instantly, and collaborate without conflicts. Use HTML/CSS/JS for the frontend, no frameworks. 

Set the time out to 9 minutes
```

Goose lets you run subagents in parallel or sequentially. I chose a hybrid approach. The first three tasks needed to happen in order, since each step relied on the previous one. But the last three could run in parallel, since they only needed the core app to exist before moving forward.

I set the timeout to 9 minutes giving the subagents more time to work on accomplishing the tasks. The subagent working on conflict resolution failed to accomplish its task in 9 minutes, so after all the subagents completed their tasks, Goose used the main session to accomplish the failed tasks. 

> ## My Parallel Prompt Fail

Reviewer: ❤️ definitely want you to share what went wrong. it's just a bit confusing. the first sentence should state that while the app worked, the result was not cohesive. and then get into the rest.

Once I had a working app, I wanted to refine the design and make the interface feel more cohesive. I wrote a follow up prompt asking Goose to spin up five subagents in parallel. Each one was in charge of a different UI component: the header, request builder, tab layout, and collaboration panel.

It didn’t go as planned. Each subagent brought its own interpretation of what “kid-friendly” meant. The result was a clashing mix of styles that felt disconnected and inconsistent.

That confirmed a hunch I had. When tasks are interdependent, running subagents in parallel is not the right move. Those kinds of tasks are better handled sequentially.

## A Better Prompt Strategy

> This time, I took a different approach. I asked Goose to analyze the existing UI and generate a shared design plan. Then I told Goose to use that plan to span new subagents and assign them tasks based on the plan.

Author: ```suggestion
This time, I took a different approach. I asked Goose to analyze the existing UI and generate a shared design plan. Then I told Goose to use that plan to spawn new subagents and assign them tasks based on the plan.
```

- Subagent 4: Create a beginner friendly README

- Subagent 5: Create a spample api collection and examples with 2-3 read to try example requests. Use safe, fun public apis like dog facts and joke api

- Subagent 6: Create a simple test suite 

Final result should be a working web app where multiple people can test APIs together, see each other's requests and responses instantly, and collaborate without conflicts. Use HTML/CSS/JS for the frontend, no frameworks. 

Set the time out to 9 minutes
```

:::note TLDR
Goose lets you run subagents in parallel or sequentially. I chose a hybrid approach instructing Goose to run the first subagents sequentially (since their tasks relied on the previous step) and the last three subagents in parallel (since they only needed the core app to exist). 

I also set the timeout to 9 minutes, giving the subagents more time than the default 5 minutes to accomplish their tasks.
:::
 
The subagents delivered a working collaborative API playground.  The functionality was solid, but I noticed the visual design was inconsistent. It used so many colors and fonts. I wanted it to look kid friendly, but not like a kid made it!

## My Parallel Prompt Fail

> So I wrote a follow-up prompt asking Goose to spawn five subagents in parallel, each responsible for a different UI component: the header, request builder, tab layout, and collaboration panel. I figured that having the subagents execute the work in parallel would get the job done faster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After the agents completed the initial task, I proceeded with a follow-up prompt asking Goose to spawn five more subagents to work in parallel, each responsible for a different UI component: the header, request builder, tab layout, and collaboration panel. I figured that having the subagents execute the work in parallel would get the job done faster.
```
